 Yeah, so like, there's nothing happening. Like, nothing. The gotch space is at a dry spot right now. So dry in fact that it did the unthinkable and actually became drier than your mom's pussy after a very good night with moi. Anyway, like I said, the space is dry as fuck. Nothing is happening, which means that your good old constipator, Aethoma, has nothing to fucking make a video on. So what does that mean? You might ask. Well, if the content doesn't come to you, you gotta go to the content. So I'm just gonna make shit up from the dome of my fucking head. Because realistically, I ain't gonna see here and wait for weeks until something happens. I can't leave y'all hanging like that. The duality of gotcha creators. There's a lot of creators, and I mean a lot. You've got the classic react andes like Tectone, Ethan, Captain Cabinets, Saint-Tonetas, etc. Funny part about them is, even though they do reacts, they're also very different. Like for example, Tectone over here takes a video and well, reacts. Hell, Bro even reacts to pop culture classics like the 100 most streamed anime openings. Yeah, when I tell y'all, Bro is desperate, well, Bro is desperate. He also has the occasional commentary videos like this one right here, where he talks about toxic positivity and people saying creators that are quote unquote negative get views easier than others. Which, hey, that's a pretty interesting topic. Now you got Ethan. You wouldn't have guessed what Ethan does. Yup, he does guides. Not for real though, Ethan takes a more flexible approach to content creation. Something he in fact can't do physically. He majorly makes reacts, but he froze in the occasional guides whenever a new character comes out. And also, the rare game show like videos like the gotcha bootcamp video. And then with that, he also does the occasional commentary video where he talks about how Genshin is the worst game known to mankind. We got Saint Tontas who used to do scripted commentary videos with majorly guides, but now that he streams and has a habit of don't know walling even the biggest creators in the space, he mostly reacts and talks about weathering waves. Surprisingly. With of course the occasional guide just like Ethan, with the only difference being that Saint Tontas makes wu-wau equals god, anything else bad content. Meanwhile, people like Ethan and Techie are more neutral. Then we got Captain Cabinets. She reacts. Cap, like I've said already, reacts. But like all the other names in this goddamn part of the video, there's a catch. She also does the occasional scripted commentary videos, which sadly are very rare. Probably rarer than a full odds gen 4 shiny Pokemon. We also have Marco Meepo. Did I mention him earlier? Ah, who cares? Marco Meepo reacts. Marco actually has a more unique outlook on reacting. Reason being he mainly and I think only reacts to music, since he is John Music. This does actually give a pretty cool POV. It's nice to be seen by someone so passionate about a specific thing. Anyway, we know what the reactanties are like. They just react. And well, since we don't care too much about that, let's talk about the commentary side. You got me, Glaive Kiyo, Stiorg, Kazahana, Genozod, and well, thing is, all of the big fuckers are technically also part of this too. So yeah, Tech Tontas, Saint Tontas, Mr. Pokey, and uh, oh wait, that's it. We know what commentary is. It's retards on the internet giving their retard takes on retard things. Just like how I gave your mother this day. People like me, Glaive, and Stiorg mainly talk about drama going on in the space. Rather that be creator drama or game drama or Twitter drama. We mainly informate people on what's going on and give our opinions on it. People like Kazahana and Darko's88 are more on the news side. They will just informate you. You go to them to know what's going on. You don't really go to them for their opinion. And then you got people like Genozod and a new up-and-coming creator, Jackstay. Or Jackstay, I'm sorry for butchering your name. That take a more unique approach. With Genozod being their real gotcha Jesus and actually having played all the gotcha games known to mankind, showing you and teaching you about gotcha games we have never heard of. And Jackstay having a very new approach to how they make their videos with a really cool stylized approach. And obviously, the Tech Tones, the Saints, the Pokeys, we already know what they're like. I talked about two-thirds of them earlier. And you already watched them anyway. No need to explain. Then you got the silly people, the silly Gooses, who just make fun videos. Goose Egg, Rogue-Tiller, Emperor, Amethyst Abrams, Oofy, Life Lessons, Cosmos, and many, many more. All of these creators just do what the fuck they want to do. Goose Egg makes what your blank main says about you videos, which are actually really fucking funny. Perhaps maybe funnier than this TikTok right here. Shut up, Lune. Who the fuck do you think you talk to? Oh, break your shit right here. Okay, maybe not that funny, but he is funny as fuck. Then you got people like Emperor who make videos like Wushinal Geographic and speed-running Weathering Waves. Just really cool ideas that in my opinion deserve at least one more view. Then you got people like Amethyst Abrams, Life Lessons, and Oofy who do majorly lore content, which is honestly not my cup of tea. My lopsided ass only cares about the jokes, the drama. But for any lore heads out there, these motherfuckers are killing it, okay? And then you got Rogue Killer, who is arguably the number one gotcha EXE creator out there. When you think of gotcha EXE, Rogue is always the first one that comes up. And then you got Cosmos. Bro makes funny ass skits. Like, what more do you want? Bro got some funny ass skits, and you're objectively wrong if you don't think so. Remember, guys, comedy is objective, not subjective. Well, that's about it. Is what I would say if I was lying. Bitch, I need this video to be 8 minutes, okay? I need my money, yeah! How else do you think I'm gonna fund my very crippling and unhealthy CS2 case opening addiction? Anyways, next we got the traitors. These motherfuckers all used to do gotcha and then had the audacity, the audacity to go on and do better things. Hex juice, Mujin, Artenekki, Rednew, and probably a few others that I don't know about. Hex juice mainly did gotcha, and then a few videos blew up outside that weren't gotcha, and she immediately dipped. Which, honestly, I'mma be so thrilled. I know I'm making this sound like a bad thing that these people left, but nah, honestly, it's for the better. Wait, that sounds mean. I mean, like, the gotcha space is just an awful place to be in. And any reason or chance to get out, I will take too. Then you got people like Mujin and Artenekki, who both do commentary. One being about general drama, and the other one being about milking whatever MrBeast logonponk cited. Then Rednew. Don't you think I didn't catch you making those Johnny Sabali videos, buddy? Don't you dare leave us. Last but certainly not least, you got the fucking mint pickers. Yeah, those mint pickers. Doro44, Bran Online, Ziyox, Enveosity, Ratsu, Zajeth, just to name a few. These people are the people that are showing toxic positivity. The people that glazed their preferred game to the max just because the money's up when they do so. Now, obviously, I'm not saying they're all the same level, like Doro44 is not as bad as fucking Otsu, of course, but obviously, they're all Genshin Dickwriters, some more than others, which is objectively a bad thing. There's honestly a bunch more content creators in a space that we might not even know about, or that I haven't even named. There's so much content in this space, it's insane, bro. I say that, but I've resorted to making an 8-minute glaze video because I didn't have any content to make. But that doesn't matter. I also wanted to add, if anyone says that negativity gets views, well, think twice, because last time I heard, motherfuckers got twice, if not, could droop all the views of people who talk negatively just by talking positively. Comment down below who your favorite content creators are, and by all means, please do fight in the comment section, since that'll give me more interactions. Nah, she got you blushing twin or hell nah, so you got a lockup twin, bro, this not even you twin on a phone on gray, bro.